present simple is for actions that happen regularly or statements which always true

when you say on mondays, that's a signal you use present simple

if you're talking about what happens every week, every day, every year, or anything that happens
often, sometimes, usually, always or something that never happens or rarely or seldom happens. these
signal for using present simple. 

    = usually i wash my hand before eat my lunch
    = on mondays we practice on field in the back of our school
    = often he talks with himself, make him like a crazy person

something that happen at the moment and now, these are signals for present continuous because present
continuous is happening now, not happens now but is happening now.
for example:
    = you're playing football (now)
    = He's playing a game of chess at the moment.
    = You're playing your piano at the moment.
    = He isn't playing cards with us at the moment. 

present continuous can also mean future plans sometimes, for example:
    = are you playing football on saturday ? 
    = is he playing with us on Saturday ?
      • this question would be a question about the future
    
static verbs - this verbs are only used in simple tense and they aren't used in present continuous tense 
               (But there's a slight exception):
    • your mind / your though - doubt, believe, agree, know, understand, recognise, remember, regret, forget
                              promise, like, love, hate.
      • there are things of the mind there verbs of the mind, states of the mind.
      • for example: if you like the party you say:
        = I like the party (not I liking the party)
        = I love the party (not I loving the party, if you remind of the McDonald's slogan, it's wrong, it's use for their promotion marketing)
        = I hate the party (not I hating the party)

    • perception in ordinary sense(indera) verbs - see, hear, look, sound and taste.
        • for example: if we just talking about something that can you hear, you can say: 
          = I hear the school bell (not Iam hearing the school bell)
          = I see a man on the horizon (not Iam seeing a man on the horizon)
          = That sounds great (not That sounding great)
          = You look fantastic (you can say "You're looking fantastic" actually but most of the time we use "look")
    • if these verbs refer to an action, then they do become dynamic verbs